src/content/blog/05-mdx-syntax/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "MDX syntax guide"
description: "Get started writing mdx in markdown."
date: "03/16/2024"
---

MDX is largely an extension of markdown with the ability to import `.astro`,
`.jsx`, `.tsx` and other framework components you have integrated.

This unlocks a lot of possibilities for creating interactive content.

This guide will cover the basics of mdx syntax and how to use it, as well as a few examples.

---

### Example 1

Importing a component from the `/components` directory.

This component will accept a javascript date object and format it as a string.

```astro
import DateComp from "../../../components/FormattedDate.astro";

<DateComp date={new Date()} />
```

import FormattedDate from "../../../components/FormattedDate.astro";

<FormattedDate date={new Date()} />

---

### Example 2

Importing a component from a relative path to your content.

This component will display an alert when you click the button.

```astro
import RelativeComponent from "./component.astro";

<RelativeComponent />
```

import RelativeComponent from "./component.astro";

<RelativeComponent />

---

Nano is an extremely lightweight theme, with no frameworks, so there aren't
any examples of react, vue, solid etc. You can integrate these frameworks using
the guide below, and also use those components in your mdx files.

Don't forget to
use the `client` directive to make them interactive.

```astro
<ReactComponent client:load />
```

---

### More Links

- [MDX Syntax Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx)
- [Astro Framework Integrations](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide)
- [Astro Usage Documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#markdown-and-mdx-pages)
- **Note:** [Client Directives](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives) are still required to create interactive components. Otherwise, all components in your MDX will render as static HTML (no JavaScript) by default.

Commit message:

astro-pagefind, callout, ToC, pagination

src/content/blog/05-mdx-syntax/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "MDX syntax guide"
description: "Use interactive components in Markdown."
date: "03/16/2024"
---

import Callout from "@/components/Callout.astro";

---

MDX is an extension of Markdown with the ability to import `.astro`,
`.jsx`, `.tsx` and other framework components you have integrated.

This guide covers the basics of MDX syntax and how to use it, as well as a few examples.

## Example 1

Importing a component from the `/components` directory.

This component accepts a Javascript date object and format it as a string.

```astro
import DateComp from "../../../components/FormattedDate.astro";

<DateComp date={new Date()} />
```

import FormattedDate from "../../../components/FormattedDate.astro";

<FormattedDate date={new Date()} />

---

## Example 2

Importing a component from a relative path to your content.

This component displays an alert when the button is clicked.

```astro
import RelativeComponent from "./component.astro";

<RelativeComponent />
```

import RelativeComponent from "./component.astro";

<RelativeComponent />

---

By default Micro has zero frameworks installed. If you install a framework, components of that framework can be used in MDX files.

<Callout>
  Don't forget to use [client
  directives](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives)
  to make framework components interactive.
</Callout>

```astro
<ReactComponent client:load />
```

---

## More Links

- [MDX Syntax Documentation](https://mdxjs.com/docs/what-is-mdx)
- [Astro Framework Integrations](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide)
- [Astro Usage Documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#markdown-and-mdx-pages)
- [Client Directives](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives)
